stop movement wall
allied teleporter
flag planter
reactive armor
exhaust a unit
delayed aoe damage
electric eel
rupture
blind blood hunter
isolation hunter
delayed long range tp
anti tp aura
corpses, like homm, cool design space + confirmation things died in fow
transportation
    can contain n units
    contained units die with transport by default
    by default unit can walk into transport, ending turn
    by default, units can start their turn in transport. only legal action is move out.
compulsive impatience, aoe debuff - when player takes action with unit that is not this unit while this unit is ready, this units suffers 1 pure damage, removed when this unit is activated.
soul tether - debuff two targets, keeps track of maximum seen distance between units, both suffer a pure damage for each distance max seen distance is extended.
corpse explosion - aoe - multiple corpses same square combined into single damage instance - corpses of dead units explode recursively
star shaped aoe
full invisibility - removed on attack until next action - removed when blocking opponent unit?
OPPONENT OUT OF ACTIONS IN ROUND NOTIFICATION? - prob is, even if opponent has to do a noop pass, this will give them info instead, so maybe just embrace? cool inventive for canon fodder or dumb arms race?
thoughts about "standard play"
    an army is build for a map pool (prob 5)
    a map is a procedure for generating a symmetrical set of hexes to play on
    map decides both the size/shape of the board (although generally this will prob be pretty standardized), the capture/deployment zones (prob also pretty standardized) and the terrain (should vary a lot)
    the map also defines the size of the deployment (how many points worth of units you get from your army). prob also a max amount of units?
    a game first involves one player being presented with a random subset of the pool (prob 4) and banning some about (prob 2). then the other player selects the map from the remaining ones (prob 2 remaining).
    then each player simultaneously decides their deployment and places it in their deployment zone, then plays the "actual" game.
    map is also responsible for defining point win threshold, and max number of rounds (normally this should be a standardized safety valve, but there is design space in "who can get more points in 3 rounds or whatever").
    this way you can easily have a "rotating" format, and different unit strengths can be more and less relevant. building an army for a map pool should be a cool balancing act.
unit price resources?
    units have a generic point value that describes how much they are worth, but maybe there should also be other resources, associated with specific mechanics/specializations/roles? this way maps get to fine tune how much "value" worth of flyers a player gets for example. this allows for more extreme map variety, where for example a map with a lot of obstacles doesn't just become all flyers.
    something like:
        - white (w) - mobility
        - blue (u) - flyer
        - red (r) - ranged
        - green (g) - high value units (if this can't be limited, then you might end up in a situation where the correct thing is to get very few units on a very small map, for very boring gameplay. alternatively a map can just ban units costing>n?)
        This prob makes sense as "pure fighting ability", i.e. "damage per turn" * "effective health", so small maps isn't just all the slowest units standing in a clump and hitting each other.
        - purple (p) - support/spells/high synergy
    maybe also a vision one?
buildings?
    immovable
    no terrain protection
power runes on map
    move over +1 movement point
    single vp pickup
        only for specific player on other side of map?
stealth while not moving
map ideas:

    note about directions (P1, P2 are starting areas):

        N
    W P1 P2 E 
        S

    jungle brawl
        small map, dense forest / jungle terrain. maybe clearing in the center? low flyer resource.
    river
        map divided by (not unbroken river) W-E. medium terrain
    jotunheim
        bunch of ice, with a lava crag in the middle. close to lave water is ice instead etc.
    frosty peaks
        large maps with sporadic wood clusters and jagged mountain lines. mountains are snow in the center of the clusters
    trench war
        mostly flat with low vegetation. Two crack lines divide the map N-S.
    arid mesa
        large platou in the middle surrounded by mostly flat desert.
    oasis
        lake in the middle, surrounded desert/shrub/dunes. middle capture zone is a ring surrounding lake
    in medias res
        starting areas very close to each other. one time player specific point pickups behind opponent for each player
        hilly landscape, medium vegetation
    swamp mix-up
        medium-sized map with thick jungle/swamp, multiple small scattered deployment zones
    cauldron
        middle capture area surrounded by unpassable mountain ring, with a few gaps. medium elevation, sparse vegetation, except for the middle.

"bat" sight, can only see presence of unit, nothing else.
orbital strike
    aoe ability 4 energy
    aoe type hex range 8 NLoS
    applies status incoming strike to terrain
        hidden
        after 2 rounds remove status and deal 6 aoe damage to any unit on hex
ability remove energy and apply energy regen preventing debuff 2 rounds
raise dead - corpse as generic skeleton - merge multiple corpses into more powerful creature?
energy overcharge
aquatic only creature
ambush trapdoor spider
storm summoner - AA
day/night cycle?
    night -1 sight (min 1)
    amount of rounds of day/night in a cycle, and where in the cycle the game starts can vary depending on map
weather (bloat, this time for real). but maybe these can just be like global statuses on certain maps?
    hot
        units ending turn with no unspent movement points suffer 1 damage
    cold
        units ending round with no adjacent allied units suffer 1 damage
    rain
        -1 sight (min 1)
    windy
        -1 movement air units
like hot/cold as just debuffs also    
identities?
    could have resource bonuses, like:
        all units below n points -1 point cost
        all units above n points -2 points cost
        +n points/resource
        bonus for unit duplicates / uniques
        discount units costing certain resources
    opponents hero is visible while deploying
bog witch
not really sure what to do with this:
    warp entity
    movement 2, health 5, sight 2, S
    open gate
        ability
        target two hexes range 4
        -1 movement
        cooldown 4 rounds
        each hex gets linked status gate for 2 rounds
            independently stackable
            when a unit enters, teleport it to linked hex
    force wall
        aoe ability
        aoe type line length 3 range 3
        cooldown 2 rounds
        each hex gets force blocked for 2 rounds
            unstackable, refreshable
            a unit moving into this hex loses all remaining movement points
    gate ability makes a lot more sense on the date demon thingy. force wall is cool, but together with what?
this one's dumb, like the shrivel idea, though:
    depressor
    movement 3, health 5, sight 2, S
    entropic ray
        ranged attack
        2 damage, 2 range
        -1 movement
    shrivel
        aoe ability
        aoe type hex size 1 range 4
        -2 movement
        apply shriveled to all units in aoe until they skip
            stackable
            -1 max health
combinable melee attack only
not sure how to make this make sense:
    immolation orb
    health 8, movement 2, sight 1, S
    - flying
    - whenever a unit engages this unit, or ends it movement adjacent to this unit, apply 1 burn to that unit.
    - at the end of round, apply 2 burn to all adjacent units
meteor strike jump
heal to minimum threshold
greater cleric
frost archmage
combat medic
big turtle
timed/remote explosives
illusion
clone unit
become copy of unit

debuff - takes damage when debuff dispelled
buff - healed when damaged over threshold / debuffed
debuff - double damage taken
corpse explosion
effect removes stacks/duration of all debuffs
exhaustion - debuff stack n - when unit ends non skip action, takes n damage. when ends skip action, remove stack of exhaustion
tough skin - greater resistance to damage from statuses. debuffs with duration applies with half duration, rounded up.
werewolf

cult warlock {5p} x2
health 5, movement 3, sight 2, energy 3, M
smite
    ranked attack
    2 damage, 2 range, -2 movement
entangle fate
    ability 2 energy
    target unit 3 range LoS
    -1 movement
    applies entangled doom

cult master
health 6, movement 3, sight 2, energy 6, M
aoe entangled doom etc

how reconcile cool use of entangled doom on allied units, if entangled doom is all units, not just of same player, with how stupid the mirror gets?

conqueror gnome {6p} x2
health 5, movement 3, sight 2, S
plant flag
    ability
    target hex 1 range
    applies status flagged to hex
        unstackable
        hex counts as occupied by allied unit for purposes of capturing points.

force psychic {8rrpp} x1
health 5, movement 2, sight 2, energy 4, S
force lance
    ranged attack
    3 damage, 3 range, no movement
shield bubble
    aoe ability 3 energy
    aoe type hex size 1 unblocked propagation range 3
    applies shield bubble status to terrain
        2 round duration
        unstackable, unrefreshable
        +2 ranged / aoe protection against attacks made from outside bubble

civilian {4p} x3
health 3, movement 3, sight 1, M
- at the end of the round, if this unit is in the middle of the board, sacrifice it. you gain 3 points

force field
    aoe ability 2 energy
    aoe type hex range 2 LoS
    can only target hex empty of ground unit
    applies force field status to terrain
        2 round duration
        unstackable, refreshable
        hex is impassable to ground units
        hex blocks LoS for attacks

physical propagation is a meme

"paranoia" debuff - unit does not provide vision when activated, and when it is is no other units does.
    bit awkward in current implementation, since you need to have vision of a unit to activate it, so when it's not activated you still
    need to have vision of the units hex, while you shouldn't have vision of even just the spaces allied units are on when it is activated.
    maybe this should just be fixed so you can always activate your unit without vision...

must attack / can't skip ability / status
same but for spells

unit that moves up to 2 spaces with normal moves

crawling cactus
    use energy to move?

unicorn
    non attack damage resistance aura
    heroic quest
    great shame
    non lethal horn applies path of peace

babushka
ready unit only allow movement
