RULES

LoS - line of sight
	blocked by certain terrain and enemy M+ ground units
flying
	no terrain movement penalties
	does not receive terrain protection
	always considered on high ground
	cannot capture points
	FoV not blocked
	enemy vision of this unit not blocked by FoV
stealth
	can only be seen by adjacent units
invisible
	can't be seen. (attempting to move on to an invalid hex will not consume a movement point.)
teleport
	move to a hex if it is unoccupied
for terrain:
	+n movement cost
		n extra movement point required to move into/out of this space
	n movement penalty
		n movement point subtracted after moving into/out of this space (result can be negative afterward)
transport
	a unit can be a transport. It must define its carry capacity.
	capacity can use any logic, but if it is just a number, it denotes it's total size capacity.
		small: 1
		medium: 2
		large: 3
	units can be inside a transport. when they are, their position is equal to that of the container, and they cannot perform any action except for a move out. They cannot be attacked.
	when a transport dies, if it is a ground unit containing a single other unit, it will attempt to place that unit on the hex of the dead transport (might fail due to attacker moving in for example, or hex being impassable for contained unit). if it fails, the unit dies. all other units die.
	transport can can be "enterable", which means an allied unit that could be contained can move unto it, entering it, and will then end its turn.
	transport can be "exitable", which means a contained unit can be activated while inside (and then only action is move out).
	transports can never be nested.
	by default flying units can not be carried.
aquatic
	can move on water
energy
	units have a max energy, and regenerate 1 at the start of each round
energy cost toggle n1/n2
	unit has two combinable abilities, one to toggle on some buff, and one to toggle it off.
	toggle on costs n1 energy. At the beginning of each round, if the unit has the buff,it loses n2 energy if available. if it isn't, the buff is lost.
round starting player
	starting player on first round is random (if there is a map draft, prob tied to this). after that, the starting player is the player that didn't take the last non-skip action in the previous round.
terrain protection
	a(-b)? x/y/z - x melee protection / y ranged protection / z aoe protection for size a (to size b)
	protection is first thing subtracted from incoming damage. cannot reduce damage below 1.
elevated
	terrain +1 protection against low ground.
	+1 move in cost from low ground
	blocks LoS from low ground
highest stackable
	for statuses applied of n. when applied, stack count will be set to max of n and previous value.
sense enemies n
	unit can see enemies in range n, ignoring LoS. units seen this way is just shown as "unknown enemy".
actions
	actions are attacks and abilities
action movement costs
	actions have movement cost. by default, it is zero. it means to perform the action, the unit must have that at least many movement points left, and it then spent them on performing the action.
	if a unit has not moved or performed an action, it ignores the minimum remaining points part, but it still pays the points.
	this means if you have a negative amount of movement points left and have moved or performed an action, you cannot perform any actions.
no movement requirement
	actions can have a "no movement" restriction, which works like a movement cost that can only be paid if no movement has been made, and costs all remaining movement points.
melee attack
	ground unit cannot melee flying unit
	to perform a melee attack, the attacker must be able to move into the attacked space, in addition to any movement cost of the attack. This does not include move in penalties, but it does include move in costs.
	attack costs movement points like moving into the space.
	after the attack, if the attacked hex is no longer occupied, due to the attacked unit dying or being moved, the attacker moves unto the hex.
resistance to [damage type(s)]
	half damage rounded up after reductions from [damage type(s)] (3 -> 2, 2 -> 1)
greater resistance
    like resistance, but round down instead (3 -> 1, 2 -> 1)
minor resistance
    like resistance, but reduce by a third instead (3 -> 2, 2 -> 2)
detection vision
	like normal vision, but can see stealth and invisible units as if they didn't have those abilities.
presence vision
    can only see if there is an enemy unit
broken
	passive abilities are inactive
rooted
	can not move
	can't melee attack (follows from not being able to move)
silenced
    can't use abilities
disarmed
    can't attack
unit sizes and LoS
    S: does not block LoS
    M: blocks enemy LoS
    L: blocks LoS